# Project 2438: vi
----

* [Quiz](#quiz)
# Another text editor

After**Emacs**, it’s time to play with**Vi**.

## Resources

**Read or watch**:

* [Basic vi Commands](https://www.cs.colostate.edu/helpdocs/vi.html)
## Learning Objectives

At the end of this project, you are expected to be able to[explain to anyone](https://fs.blog/feynman-learning-technique/),**without the help of Google**:

### General

* What is vi
* Who is Bill Joy
* How to start and exit vi
* What are the command and insert modes, and how to switch from one to the other
* How to edit text
* How to cut and paste lines
* How to search forward and backward
* How to undo
* How to quit vi
## Requirements

* All tasks**must be**done inside the sandbox`Ubuntu 22.04`
**Great!**You've completed the quiz successfully! Keep going!#### Question #0

Vi is included with almost every Linux distribution.

* 

True

* 

False

#### Question #1

How do you enter Command Mode in Vi?

* 

`Ctrl / Command + C`

* 

`<ESC>`

* 

`<Return>`

#### Question #2

How do you enter Insert Mode in Vi?

* 

`<Insert>`

* 

`<Return>`

* 

`i`

#### Question #3

How do you quit Vi?

* 

`:q<Return>`

* 

`<ESC>`

* 

`q`


----
## Tasks
---
### 0. Create your answer directory

Navigate to /root and create a directory named vi


---
### 1. Inserting

What is the command to insert text before the cursor?

Write the answer into the file /root/vi/inserting.

You can validate if the format of your answer is correct by displaying the file information:

```
root@hex:~# ls -l /root/vi/inserting
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 2 Nov 11 04:34 /root/vi/inserting
root@hex:~# 

```


---
### 2. Cutting

What is the command to delete and cut the current line?

Write the answer into the file /root/vi/cutting.

Tips:

- How to Copy, Cut and Paste


---
### 3. Pasting

What is the command to paste the lines in the buffer into the text after the current line?

Write the answer into the file /root/vi/pasting.


---
### 4. Undoing

What is the command to undo what you just did?

Write the answer into the file /root/vi/undoing.


---
### 5. Exiting

What is the command to quit vi even though latest changes have not been saved for this vi call?

Write the answer into the file /root/vi/exiting.


---
### 6. Beginning of the line

What is the command to move the cursor to the start of the current line?

Write the answer into the file /root/vi/beginning_of_the_line.


---
### 7. End of the line

What is the command to move the cursor to the end of the line?

Write the answer into the file /root/vi/end_of_the_line.